Jon Davis: Hello,
I'm Jon Davis,
web technologies evangelist
for the Safari and WebKit teams.
I'm excited to be your guide
on how to build
and deploy Safari extensions
for iOS.
Now, there are a couple
of different types
of extensions for iOS.
We've had content blockers
on iOS for a few years,
and that's a type of extension
that allows you to configure
powerful rules
to block resource loads.
But I'm here to tell you
about Safari web extensions.
They were introduced last year
on macOS Big Sur
and this fall, we brought them
to iOS 15 and iPadOS 15.
It's a type of extension
that uses web technologies
that works across
other browsers,
and our users are loving them.
It's the most popular category
on the App Store,
and they're easy to install,
like any other app.
And that's because
Safari web extensions
are distributed with an app.
And that means
you get the benefits
of being on the App Store.
Users can discover
your extensions,
you can easily sell
your extensions up front --
You can even take advantage
of powerful features
like in-app payments
to unlock advanced features
of your extensions
or use TestFlight
to run a beta program.
But maybe you're saying,
"That's all well and good, John,
but I'm a web developer,
not an app developer."
Well, me too! And they asked me
to be your guide.
So I'm here
to help you learn Xcode,
and we're going to build
a new project from scratch.
I'm also going to touch on
the privacy-preserving
permissions model of Safari
and how to submit
your extension
with some tips on sailing
through that App Review process.
So let's get started
working with Xcode.
And to do that, we'll need
to download and install it
from the App Store.
I'm going to launch
the App Store,
and in Search
I'll type "Xcode"
and it comes up
just about right away.
And then all you need to do
is click the Get button
and then click Install.
Now, it is a sizeable download
that'll take a while
but when you're able
to launch it,
Xcode will prompt you to install
Command Line Tools.
If you skipped installing them,
you can easily do that later
from the command line
in Terminal.
You'll just need to type
"xcode-select"
and add the install flag,
and that'll kick off
the install process.
Now, my environment
is ready to go,
so I won't run
this command now,
but you'll want to make sure
you have them installed
because they include
an important tool
called the Safari
web extension converter.
It's useful if you've written
a web extension for
another browser
or one you've written
for Safari on macOS
that you'd like to upgrade
with support for Safari on iOS.
Now I have a simple demo web
extension in my Documents folder
and this hello-world extension
is written for another browser,
and it simply shows
a "Hello World" message
in a pop-up.
Now I can use the converter tool
to upgrade it to work with iOS.
In Terminal, just type "xc",
as in Xcode --
so that's "xcrun".
And then
"safari-web-extension-converter"
and a path to the project.
If you have an extension written
for Safari on macOS,
you can also upgrade it
using the converter tool.
Just type "xcrun
safari-web-extension-converter"
and add the rebuild-project flag
followed by the path
to the macOS extension.
But let's actually see
what the convertor tool does
when we run it on
the Hello World extension.
And pressing Return,
it begins the process.
And what it's actually doing
is wrapping our extension
into an app project
that we can compile and run
for iOS and macOS.
Now, switching back
to the Terminal for a moment,
I want to point out this note
that has a warning here,
showing that iOS extensions
require nonpersistent
background pages.
This is actually really great
because it's basically giving us
a to-do list of the things
we'll need to check
to make sure our extension
will work for iOS.
Let's get back into Xcode.
This extension is almost ready.
The background script
is already set up to run
in a nonpersistent way.
We just need to tell Safari
to run it that way.
So all I need to do
to get this to work for iOS
is to edit the manifest file.
And in the background section,
I'll add the persistent key
with a value of false.
And that's it!
Let's try running this
in the simulator.
I'm going to use
the Build Targets menu
and choose iPhone 13 Pro.
Now, I have a lot of simulators
installed already,
but you may need to use
the Add Additional Simulators
to download the ones
you'd like to test in.
So I'll select iPhone 13 Pro and
click the build and run button;
the one that looks like
a play button.
And this is going
to build our app
and launch it in the simulator.
You can see the status here
in the upper-right
of the status bar.
Now, switching to the simulator,
I'll need to wait until the app
gets installed and launches.
Once it's launched,
I can switch over
to the Settings app,
find the Safari section,
and tap on Extensions,
and then turn on
our Hello World extension.
Now we can try it out in Safari.
Launch Safari
and tap the Aa menu.
There, you'll find
the Hello World extension,
and I can tap on it,
and it prompts for permission.
I'll talk more about that later,
but for now, I'll select
Allow For One Day.
And there we go.
A "Hello World!" message
in a pop-up.
And that's how easy it is for
you to convert a web extension
written for another browser.
So I had an idea for a project
to build a preview
of Open Graph metadata;
the same metadata that's used
to show previews
on social media sites
like Twitter.
You get this nice image,
a title,
and description of the web page.
And so, I'd like to build
an extension
that can preview that data
using a pop-up.
So that's what we're going
to build today.
So let's start by creating
a new project in Xcode.
I'll select Safari Extension App
under Multiplatform
and click Next.
For the product name
I'm going to use
"Open Graph Preview."
It already has my team filled in
and an organization identifier
using the reverse domain
convention.
I'll leave the language as Swift
and click Next.
Now it's asking for a place
to save the project --
the desktop will work fine --
and I'm going to leave
the "Create Git repository
on Mac" enabled --
I love having version
control built in --
and I'll click Create.
And this will generate
the project for us
from the template.
Now, before we go any further,
let me give you
a brief overview of Xcode.
On the left side of the window
is the navigation sidebar
with all of the resources for
your project organized for you.
In the center is the main editor
for the files you select
from the navigator sidebar
and then the right
is an inspector sidebar
that changes based on
the file you're editing.
We're not going to need
the inspector sidebar
so I'm going to go ahead
and hide it so that we have
a little bit more room
to work with.
Now let's take a look
at the files that make up
a new Safari web extension
project,
and at the top of the navigator
sidebar is the project file.
When you select it,
it opens the main editor
to a configuration option screen
for the project.
Now below that
is the Shared (App) folder,
and this has the resources
for the app launch screen.
When you click
the disclosure triangle
next to the Resources folder,
you'll see it's just
web resources.
In fact, it's just an HTML file
that you can edit,
and the template sets you up
to easily customize the markup,
the styles, and the script.
The Shared (Extensions) folder
has all of the resources
for our extension.
And then when you expand
the Resources folder,
you'll see all the familiar
files for a web extension.
The manifest is here,
the background script,
the content script,
and the pop-up files.
The iOS (App)
and macOS (App) folders
have platform-specific resources
and then below that
the iOS (Extension)
and macOS (Extension) folders
have extension-specific
resources for those platforms.
We're not going to need to worry
about them for this project,
so I'm going to go ahead
and put them away
because all of our work will be
in the Shared (Extension) files.
And let's start
in the manifest file.
And you can see
that the template provides
everything we need
to get started,
including filling out
the name and description
from the project information.
Below that,
it specifies some default icons;
you'll want to remember
to provide your own
for your project.
And then here,
it provides a background script,
and you can see
it's already set up
to run the background script
in a nonpersistent way.
Now, for this project,
we're actually not going to need
the background script,
so I'm going to go ahead
and remove this entry
from the manifest file
and go ahead and remove
the background script itself
and move that to the trash.
Next, it sets up
the content script,
and here is where it declares
the JavaScript file
and the domain pattern for the
website it can be injected on.
Now, I want this tool
to be usable on any site
the user wants to use it on,
so I'm actually going to change
the "example.com" here
to an asterisk
so it can match any domain.
Below that, it declares
the browser action section
and here we define
a "popup" file
and then a set of default
toolbar icons --
again, you'll want to remember
to supply your own
for your project.
And finally, we have
the permissions key,
where I'm going to add activeTab
as a permission
we're going to use.
Why activeTab?
I'm so glad you asked.
Let's take a quick look
at the different permissions
extensions can use.
The extensions model
in Safari is set up
to put users in control.
It doesn't work
without user interaction first,
and so they're badged
on first use
to help train users.
Permissions are granted
per website, and that means
website permissions will show up
in Safari's settings
and preferences
for users to control.
Now, there are four fun flavors
of permissions to look at.
Let's go through each.
The first type of permission is
the script injection permission.
This allows you
to inject JavaScript
and even style sheets into
the page a user is browsing,
based on the domains of websites
listed in the matches key.
Extensions injecting scripts
get badged in the toolbar
when the website
the user is browsing
matches the pattern
in the matches key.
The user will need to click
the extension to enable it.
And it's always
just sitting there,
waiting to be enabled
by the user.
The next type of permission
is the implicit permission.
Now, there are a couple
of different types
of implicit permissions
declared in the manifest file.
The first that I have
highlighted here
are nonsensitive,
which doesn't require
any extra privileges.
And the second type
are sensitive permissions
because they have
a website-identifying data,
and this is one of the ways
that we protect user privacy.
When you call an API,
it waits for a callback
with the data.
Users get prompted after
interacting with the extension,
and they'll have about
a minute to respond.
When they approve it,
the callback gets fulfilled
and the data is given back.
Anything they've already
approved gets fulfilled
just about right away.
The next type of permission
is the explicit permission,
and this is explicit
because the extension itself
is requesting permission.
A prompt is always
shown modally,
and it's not badged because
it's the extension itself
requesting permission,
not the user.
And the last type of permission
is the active tab permission.
This is a special case where
if you want to avoid alerts,
active tab is the answer.
Users will need to interact
with the extension
via the toolbar, or on Mac
they can use a keyboard shortcut
or a contextual menu.
This grants a tabs permission
for the current domain
in the current tab.
And that's the one
we want to use today.
Now let's move on
to coding the content script.
And the content script template
is set up to send
and listen for messages.
Now, we won't need to send a
message from the content script,
but we will need
to listen for one.
The first thing we need
our content script to do
is to grab the Open Graph
metadata from the page
the user is browsing,
and we can just use
some simple DOM API
to find the right meta tags
for the OG title,
description, and image.
Now, the way the extension
will work,
the user will tap on the
extension to open the pop-up
and it will be
the pop-up script's job
to ask the content script
for the Open Graph data
from the current page.
So in this listener callback,
we want to listen for a message
with the magic word.
Now, if we get a message
without the magic word,
then we're just not going
to do anything.
In fact, we'll just
return void here.
But if we do get a message
with the magic word,
then we'll send back the data
from the meta tags.
And that's all we need to do
in the content script.
So let's move on
to setting up our pop-up,
and we'll start
in the pop-up HTML file.
You can see the style sheet and
the JavaScript for the pop-up
are included right here.
So for web developers, you're
going to feel right at home.
Now for our markup in this file,
we just need to set up
some placeholder elements
for our title and description
and image previews.
So now we have a placeholder
element for the title,
and for the description,
and for our image.
Next, will make some adjustments
to our pop-up's style sheet.
Here, I only need to make
a few minor adjustments
to make it look great
on all platforms.
And last, I just need to set up
a responsive design layout
for the images to fill the space
and maintain aspect ratio.
Finally, we come
to the heart of the extension
by editing the popup script,
and first we need to grab
a reference to those
placeholder elements
we defined in our
popup HTML file.
Next, we need to send a message
to the content script
and to do that, we need to query
for the active tab.
So to query for the active tab
in the current window,
we'll use the tabs.query API.
And in the tabs.query API,
we'll filter by active tab
in the current window.
Once we have the correct tab,
we can now send the message.
And in sending the message,
we'll pass the current tabs ID
and of course,
our magic word.
Then when we get the response,
we simply need to update
our placeholder elements
with the data.
That's it!
Now, let's try running
our extension in the simulator.
Again, from the Target menu,
I'll select iPhone 13 Pro
simulator.
I'll click the build and run
button to kick off the process
and switch to the simulator,
where I'll wait
for the app to launch.
Once it's launched,
I can enable our new extension
in the Settings app.
So let's switch to Settings
and scroll to Safari.
Then tap it and tap Extensions,
and under Open Graph Preview
I can toggle it on.
Now let's launch Safari
and I'll tap the Aa menu.
And there in the menu
is Open Graph Preview.
Now, when I tap on this,
I get a permission request
for the content script.
I'll select Allow For One Day.
And bingo, we have a preview
of this page's open graph data.
Now let's try it
on another page.
Again from the Aa menu,
I'll tap Open Graph Preview
and Allow For One Day.
And there we have it,
but that's not quite right.
We shouldn't have
a broken image.
So to figure out
what's going on here,
I can use Web Inspector
in Safari.
If you haven't enabled it,
go to Safari Preferences
and under the Advanced tab
enable Show Develop menu
in the menu bar.
Then from the Develop menu,
you can select Web Inspector
for the content
from the simulator.
And when I do that,
I can easily see that
the image did not load.
So if the URL is wrong,
that's probably coming
from the content.
So let's open another
Web Inspector for webkit.org.
Now I can search
for the og meta tag data.
And here I can see
we have a title,
and we have a description --
Ah, but we're missing the image.
And that's what's going on.
We have an undefined case
we're not handling.
So back in Xcode,
all we need to do
is handle that undefined case.
Now I can try
running this again.
Clicking the
Build and Run button,
I'll click Replace to replace it
on the simulator,
and once it launches
I can jump back into Safari
and try it again.
From the Aa menu, I'll select
Open Graph Preview and bingo.
Perfect!
It shows the title
and description,
but we should make sure it works
on a page that does have
an image, and it does.
Perfect!
Well, getting it to work
in the simulator is a great way
to test on a number of devices,
but it's always a good idea
to test on a real device.
So I have an iPhone handy.
Back in Xcode,
I'll select the Target menu
and choose the iPhone.
Now let's build and run
and launch it on this device.
After it's running on the device
and launches,
I'll need to enable it
in Settings.
So let's switch back
to the Settings app.
Under Safari and Extensions
and Open Graph Preview,
we'll toggle it on.
Now, launching Safari again,
I'll tap the Aa menu.
And I can see the extension
and tap it,
and Allow For One Day.
And it works perfect.
Let's try this on a few
other pages to make sure
we have all of
the cases working.
Here on developer.apple.com
it didn't prompt
for extra permission
because it's part
of the apple.com domain.
Let's try on webkit.org.
And here we'll tap the Aa menu
again and Open Graph Preview
and again it prompts because
this is a different website.
Perfect.
And one more on the post
with an image.
We'll tap Aa,
Open Graph Preview.
Perfect!
So, excellent.
Now that we have our app
and extension working
in the simulator
and a real device,
I'd say we're ready
to submit this to the App Store.
First, there's a quick detail to
take care of before submitting.
In your project settings,
select your iOS app target
and be sure to set
an App Category.
I'll select Developer Tools.
Next, from the Product menu,
select Archive.
And similar
to the build process,
you'll see the progress in the
right side of the status bar.
When it's ready,
select the build archive
you're ready to submit,
and click
the Distribute App button.
From the assistant,
under method of distribution
we'll select App Store Connect
and click Next.
For destination, I'll leave
Upload and click Next.
And it will begin to communicate
with App Store Connect
to prepare an app record.
Here I can review the name
and make sure my SKU
is unique among SKUs
used for other apps
in my App Store Connect account.
Now I'll click the Next button,
and it begins to prepare
our app record for review.
First, though, there are some
distribution options
that it will ask for.
These are all very helpful,
so I'm going to leave them
and click Next.
And I definitely want to keep
Automatically manage signing
and click Next.
Now we'll get a chance
to review the app content
and the extension content.
When we're happy with it,
I'll click Upload.
While we wait for the upload
to complete,
let's take a quick look
at some tips
for getting through
App Store Review.
First, make sure you own
all the code and any content,
images, or other assets
used in your project.
Ensure you have or can prove
permission for any APIs
or JavaScript frameworks
that are called.
You'll also want to remember
to provide a custom icon
and use a unique name
for your app --
help it to stand out
on the App Store.
And don't just decorate
the web with emojis.
The best web extensions --
the ones that get featured --
provide something useful
to the user.
And if you have code
for any web payments
or donations
for another browser,
you'll need to disable it
for App Store Review.
Upfront sales of extensions
are easy and wildly popular
in the App Store.
Let's check on that
upload process.
The upload completed
successfully.
Great.
Now in Safari, I can log in
to App Store Connect
and click on My Apps to see
the new app record
that's been created.
And clicking
on Open Graph Preview,
I can provide some additional
information for the App Store.
You'll want to provide some
preview images for your app.
And then under Promotional Text
you should provide some
descriptive information
about what's new
in this release.
Under Description,
you'll want to provide
a complete description
of what this extension does
for your users
and then you can also supply
some keywords.
Note the hundred-character
limit;
you'll need to be precise.
You'll also want to provide
a URL specifically for a page
where users can get support
for your extension.
And optionally, you can include
an address for a marketing page.
Then you'll use the upload tools
to select the correct upload
for your app.
And once you have
all of that filled out,
you can click
the Submit For Review button
to begin the App Review process.
And that's how easy it is
to build and submit
Safari web extensions.
We encourage you
to submit your extensions
for both iOS and MacOS
and check out the resources
associated with this session.
And be sure to file feedback;
we'd love to hear from you.
You can use Feedback Assistant
to file bugs
or make feature requests.
And thanks for watching.